doc: Make application types visible (#44803)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/develop/application/index.rst

The following sections describe how to create, build, and run Zephyr
applications, followed by more detailed reference material.

.. _zephyr-app-types:

Application types
*****************

Based on where the source code of the application is located we can distinguish
between three basic application types.

* Zephyr repository application
* Zephyr workspace application
* Zephyr freestanding application

You can find out more about how the build system supports all the application
types described in this section in the :ref:`cmake_pkg` section.

.. _zephyr-repo-app:

Zephyr repository application
=============================

An application located within the ``zephyr`` folder in a Zephyr :ref:`west
workspace <west-workspaces>` is referred to as a Zephyr repository application.

> In the following example, the `hello_world sample <hello_world>` is a

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a link? The syntax doesn't seem correct.

The following sections describe how to create, build, and run Zephyr
applications, followed by more detailed reference material.

.. _zephyr-app-types:

Application types
*****************

Based on where the source code of the application is located we can distinguish
between three basic application types.

You can find out more about how the build system supports all the application
types described in this section in the :ref:`cmake_pkg` section.

.. _zephyr-repo-app:

Zephyr repository application
=============================

> The default Zephyr :ref:`west workspace <west-workspaces>` has the following

Reviewer 2: See next comment

```suggestion
In case of a Zephyr repository application the :ref:`west workspace <west-workspaces>` has the following
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure which additional information we are trying to add, implementing this suggestion, as this edit can't really be done without changing also lines 104-108. 
Just check this block:

```
The default Zephyr :ref:`west workspace <west-workspaces>` has the following
structure:
...
Any application located within the ``zephyr`` folder is referred to as a Zephyr
repository application.
For example, the ``hello_world`` :ref:`sample <hello_world>` is a Zephyr
repository application.
```
Compared to this block (not making much sense):

```
In case of a Zephyr repository application the :ref:`west workspace <west-workspaces>` has the following
structure:
...
Any application located within the ``zephyr`` folder is referred to as a Zephyr
repository application.
For example, the ``hello_world`` :ref:`sample <hello_world>` is a Zephyr
repository application.
```

structure:

.. code-block:: none

   zephyrproject/
   ├─── .west/
   │    └─── config
   └─── zephyr/
        ├── arch/
        ├── boards/
        ├── cmake/
        ├── samples/
        │    ├── hello_world/
        │    └── ...
        ├── tests/
        └── ...

Any application located within the ``zephyr`` folder is referred to as a Zephyr
repository application.
For example, the ``hello_world`` :ref:`sample <hello_world>` is a Zephyr
repository application.

.. _zephyr-workspace-app:

Zephyr workspace application
============================

> A Zephyr :ref:`workspace <west-workspaces>` has the following overall structure:

Reviewer: Same as my previous comment

.. code-block:: none

   zephyrproject/
   ├─── .west/
   │    └─── config
   ├─── zephyr/
   ├─── bootloader/
   ├─── modules/
   ├─── tools/
   ├─── <vendor/private-repositories>/
   └─── applications/

>         └── app/

Author: It could, but this is irrelevant to this section, which categorizes applications based on their location. When we talk about workspace here we do not necessarily mean the default Zephyr workspace, it could also be a workspace generated by a manifest tha imports the zephyr one.

> Any application located within a workspace, but outside the Zephyr repository

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that `app` is often the manifest repository and contrast this with the previous scenario?

Author: No, because this is about the application type based on location, not about the manifest itself.

itself, is referred to as a Zephyr workspace application.
In this example ``app`` is a Zephyr workspace application.

.. _zephyr-freestanding-app:

Zephyr freestanding application
===============================

A Zephyr freestanding application is a Zephyr application located outside of a

> Zephyr :ref:`workspace <west-workspaces>`.

Author: It would become a workspace app.

.. code-block:: none

   <home>/
   ├─── zephyrproject/
   │     ├─── .west/
   │     │    └─── config
   │     ├── zephyr/
   │     ├── bootloader/
   │     ├── modules/
   │     └── ...
   │
   └─── app/
        ├── CMakeLists.txt
        ├── prj.conf
        └── src/

>             └── main.c

Author: I´d rather not document this right now, here on this page. This is a separate issue that probably belongs to the CMake chapter instead. We can link to it later.

* Zephyr repository application
* Zephyr workspace application
* Zephyr freestanding application

You can find out more about how the build system supports all the application
types described in this section in the :ref:`cmake_pkg` section.

.. _zephyr-repo-app:

Zephyr repository application
=============================

An application located within the ``zephyr`` folder in a Zephyr :ref:`west
workspace <west-workspaces>` is referred to as a Zephyr repository application.
In the following example, the :ref:`hello_world sample <hello_world>` is a
Zephyr repository application:

.. code-block:: none

   zephyrproject/
   ├─── .west/
   │    └─── config
   └─── zephyr/
        ├── arch/
        ├── boards/
        ├── cmake/
        ├── samples/
        │    ├── hello_world/
        │    └── ...
        ├── tests/
        └── ...

.. _zephyr-workspace-app:

Zephyr workspace application
============================

An application located within a :ref:`workspace <west-workspaces>`, but outside
the Zephyr repository (and thus folder) itself, is referred to as a Zephyr
workspace application.  In the following example, ``app`` is a Zephyr workspace

> application:

Reviewer 3: I'd add a note here mentioning this is likely the preferred way to develop Zephyr applications so that it is clear for users. I've seen quite a few different application structures, probably because documentation is not clear nor doesn't point users to the common use case.

Author: See my earlier comments about this:

https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/44803#discussion_r874980951
https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/pull/44803#discussion_r874984831
